you know there's something deeper that
creates the illusion of space and time
in humans
the UFO world can be a spooky one it's
hard to know which sources to trust you
have to listen to your inner voice about
who has ulterior motives who is
profiteering who is spreading
disinformation and who is performing
psychological operations on the American
population the point is without an
internal Compass it's easy to end up
alone in a hallway of mirrors these days
since our technology platforms are so
high to generate effects then it really
is a zoo of options and possibilities
but occasionally you meet long-time
researchers who are clearly on their own
genuine quest for meaning in life and
their inquiry into UFOs is just one part
of that a harbinger of the next Paradigm
a fascinating scientific anomaly with
profound sociological implications I
would be ashamed of Being Human if I
didn't try to find out why the minimum
acknowledge that it was there Jacques
valet is the ultimate archetype of this
he is a serious researcher with the
computer science physics and astronomy
background he even helped build the
earliest version of the internet a
project called arpanet with legendary
computer scientist Doug inglebar and for
the purposes of this episode he has
probably talked to more UFO Witnesses
and seen more exotic material than any
living person in fact it's now almost
conventional knowledge that if you're an
average citizen who encounters a UFO
crash mail the materials to Jacques
Jacques books are incredibly dense and
detailed not for the faint of heart but
if you read them closely Jacques can
drop some truth bombs you won't get
anywhere else like in his book
Revelations alien contact and human
deception when he hints that Bob Lazar
was actually an MK Ultra patient
possibly the subject of government
brainwashing which led him to believe he
worked on reverse engineering UFOs on
page 9 the lay writes Robert Lazar also
told me of his strange memory lapses of
the peculiar liquid he was made to drink
it violated a lot of what we thought was
impossible to violate but perhaps what I
find most interesting about Jacques is
that he's just as mystical as he is
hard-headed and scientific he's as
interested in esotericism parapsychology
and Philip K dick as he is nuts and
bolts analysis of the material science
and physics involved in UFOs we really
don't have a good idea of what reality
is
[Music]
when Steven Spielberg wanted to depict
an eccentric yet brilliant scientist
studying UFOs for his famous movie Close
Encounters of the Third Kind he decided
to base the character played by Francois
truffaut off of Jacques
I've been privileged enough to have a
few private conversations with Jacques
prior to this interview he often doesn't
answer my questions directly and almost
seems to speak in code in Parables
leaving me with breadcrumbs in the form
of books and anecdotes but not
explicating his point but in this
interview I pressed him to give us
explicit details spoiler alert he drops
some serious new knowledge on us project
rule book was the best I could do at the
time because I felt they had a real
project going on that was secret okay is
that true
in the Air Force did oh I didn't know
that we also talk about his new book
Trinity the best kept secret it
describes a UFO crash in 1945 next to
the Trinity test site in New Mexico just
20 days after the first ever atomic bomb
test on United States soil occurred
there so without further Ado hit
subscribe sit back and enjoy this
long-awaited interview with the French
Godfather of UFOs my friend in this
week's American Alchemist the legendary
Jacques valet
[Music]
different parts of the rain have
different activities but you know that
don't you
[Music]
remember maybe you should interview me
I want to start with Trinity the book
and then we can kind of expand out from
there it's a fascinating topic that I
think kind of updates our modern
understanding of ufology because we
think about Roswell as a sort of basic
starting point and in fact the Trinity
test site in New Mexico there's a test
on July of 1945 and then 20 days later
in San Antonio uh you see this this
crash
foreign
Ty is a fascinating story just 20 days
after the first atomic test on U.S soil
and two days after the Japanese
concession a metallic avocado shaped
object dropped from the sky in San
Antonio New Mexico right next to the
test site it is damaged it has lost one
panel but it gets its Integrity two kids
the sons of local cattle ranchers Remy
Baca and Jose Padilla ages 7-9
respectively saw the craft in the
distance through that opening of one
panel that's missing they see three
creatures they were human-like they had
two eyes they were you know about three
feet they had two arms three fingers and
two legs they were walking by moving
like that without moving their legs
translate or slide yeah Remy was crying
Remy's with seven-year-old you know he's
he says look you go there if you want to
I I no way you know I'm going in into
that thing but why would Jacques at the
age of 83 write just another UFO crash
story because this isn't just a Roswell
Redux the Trinity story has unique
profound implications on ufology for
three major reasons number one it
occurred before the word Flying Saucer
was in our public lexicon it's not a
flying saucer the term Flying Saucer
doesn't exist it's going to be invented
two years later by Kenneth Donald this
shows that the UFO story even in the
American context likely precedes Roswell
which also happened in 1947 two years
after Trinity and that flying saucers
are just the modern version of something
that has been going on for Millennia
this is a point Jacques repeatedly makes
in many of his books you know people
have always seen aliens I mean you know
when I wrote passport to Magonia people
said valet has gone off the deep end
that's what I want to engrave now on My
Grave you know ballet has gone
number two when Jacques inquired about
Trinity no one with top secret
clearances in the U.S federal government
had even heard of the case in fact valet
was introduced to it by an Italian UFO
researcher named Paola Harris who later
became his co-author on the book and she
had already interviewed and had tapes of
interviews with both of the kids who by
then were old men in Jacques mind this
complete obliviousness on the part of
the federal government shows that the
group that holds the secrets to the UFO
story is a small insular one with their
own separate set of clearances one big
question that Paola and I have had is
would alpenheimer have been told the
Manhattan Project would have custody of
it and then it would go into the atomic
energy commission and then it would go
into the department of energy which has
its own line of clearances and that's
why I can't find among the people I know
who have clearances Above Top Secret
they've never heard of this yeah they've
never heard of this because you can be
in the Pentagon yeah with the top secret
clearance but if you if you're not
briefed on the atomic secrets you
wouldn't get the clearances that you
needed to do to open up that thing in
fact Chris Mellon the former deputy
assistant secretary of defense for
intelligence in the Clinton and George W
bush administrations claims he almost
met with someone from the UFO program I
was supposed to meet a fellow for
example who
supposedly it was in one of these
aerospace companies and supposedly had
been directly involved in that activity
and uh we were about two ways weeks away
from meeting when he died when he had a
heart attack to add more evidence to
this theory that UFOs are in commercial
hands subject to a completely separate
clearance system is the notorious Wilson
memo a leaked document describing a
secret meeting occurring between the
director of intelligence J2 Admiral
Thomas Wilson and a physicist and
propulsion expert named Eric Davis in
this alleged meeting the Admiral
expresses complete exasperation as he
uncovers and meets with a black budget
private Aerospace Corporation attempting
to reverse engineer crashed UFOs without
any official government oversight Wilson
says that The Gatekeepers of this
program are convinced that the material
in their possession are not of this
Earth but that the process of doing
anything productive with the material
has been slow and cumbersome with little
to no success since Roswell they also
describe a system of intense
compartmentalization
so no one in the program besides those
at the top have the full picture no one
has the whole puzzle or an image of the
whole puzzle but they have pieces they
have corners of the puzzle the whole
thing was set up to be that way
on purpose and number three Trinity is a
perfect example of the inherently absurd
nature of UFOs it is a bizarre yet
cinematic story that is so hard to
figure out but has had a profound impact
on the witnesses involved it's absurd I
mean think of the Zen coin you know or
the sound of one hand clapping well
where is the other head you know so you
know it stops your brain the behavior in
Close Encounters is is not uh take me to
your leader it's not this is what you
guys should do from now on because
that's not going to work
I want to actually get the book because
I I highlighted a couple of passages and
I want you to see you're the kind of
reader I like yeah you know that's what
an author likes to see
you put you put it on on page five you
kind of I mean this is I've always found
this about you it's like you uh
you're extremely detailed in your
writing and then you'll like put one
line in italics which is like you you
have to think about it a lot so so like
here you go and two days after the
emperor surrendered just one month after
the awesome Atomic test by Robert
Oppenheimer Enrico Fermi and their Star
team of physicists a weird object came
out of nowhere circled in the sky over
the Mesquite infested Hills as if to
underline the enormity of what had taken
place or to acknowledge it or even in my
own speculation to open up a parallel
historical and strategic path one that
superseded even The Taming of the atomic
Force
so what do you mean by that you know I
mean how many years has it been and we
haven't used the atombo
right but never the Russians haven't
used it no you know there were lots of
occasions where I mean we can have
terminated the Korean war with one one
plane sure right Cuban Missile Crisis
still begs the question
if you're an alien civilization or an
Angelic civilization or something uh
Celestial civilization uh and you want
to open up a parallel timeline why would
you do it in such a kind of um
tongue-in-cheek sort of way like a like
you know you drop a three-ton avocado
that's sort of a strange way to open up
a parallel timeline that goes into a
discussion on control systems and you
know that's in in Psychology but uh
Skinner yeah if you want to teach
something to somebody you shouldn't
reward every instance where that kid or
that person does something right
intermittently not to change your
behavior of somebody who drinks too much
you want to change the behavior of it of
of a kid and get him to learn something
that's hard to learn you should not
reward every time because if you if you
do it every time you get fast learning
but then they honor people go back to
the way they were before Jacques ballet
talks about like how do you create a
real cult following it's not by showing
yourself consistently it's like if you
if you have every time you hit a lever
you know some treat comes out for uh for
a dog or whatever
they're gonna hit the lever less than if
it comes out randomly this idea of
intermittent reinforcement if they're
like sort of sporadic so do you think
our our Evolution as a species is being
co-directed by through the intermittent
reinforcement by a superior species that
maybe uses control mechanisms like
religion where you sort of show up to
some profit as a specific sort of shape
or form and then they create a noble
mythology and then everybody else sort
of follows them and you you don't do it
by landing on the White House loan
because people will be amazed for a
couple of days and then they'll say you
know that was a trick that was Hollywood
that was uh this guy wanted to stay in
power so he ripped it up which was is
what we see now you know in politics
every day you know I mean how do you
know something is true you don't anymore
you don't have a reference anywhere I
still want to get back to
so what would if there's a trickle-down
effect of seeing this avocado that's
somehow deterrent in terms of using a
nuclear weapon for human civilization I
don't quite see what that would be look
they
you know Jose went inside yeah on the
last day the floor was flat that means
there's about this much underneath okay
the thing is oval it's another cattle
and so the quilt engine if you think of
an engine the engine is in there
somewhere you know even if a propulsion
system is somewhere else beaming energy
into it you still have to lift that you
know three four ton got it Gadget into
the air so it was it was a show of force
almost but a light show for it was like
we're we're much more powerful because
we have proportion that is stepwise
better you know the communication would
be you think you're really smart because
you blew up you know a weapon down the
road here uh for the first time in
history right no no look at this right
right right
so do you think these things are air
dropping you know you've said you've had
private conversations with Philip Corso
yes do you think these entities are sort
of airdropping technology and they want
us to become as technologically advanced
as possible and it's this sort of
demonic apocalyptic Force
army officer Philip J Corso was on the
staff of president Eisenhower's National
Security Council for four years later
becoming chief of the pentagon's foreign
technology desk in Army research and
development so he was definitely in high
government circles as corroborated by
many colleagues but in his book The Day
After Roswell Corso claims a covert
government group was assembled under the
leadership of Admiral Roscoe
hilenquitter the first director of the
CIA to collect all information on
off-planet technology and retrieve all
of the debris from the Roswell crash
Corso even claims that he was part of
the cleanup crew at Roswell he goes on
to say in the book that the reverse
engineering of the Roswell parts
indirectly led to the development of
fiber optics lasers integrated circuits
and even Kevlar I worked at the time we
had the first computer this was way back
with the first computer in France from
IBM them where the circuits were called
and when when something went wrong the
repair guy came in with a test day he
would test the whole computer identify
the car that was wrong we pull it out
put it in the trash can put on another
one a new one in so we had a trash can
that was full of these wonderful little
complete cards with complete circuits so
I took one of those and I I was having
lunch with my name Michelle and I told
him you are my my priest okay I respect
you very highly and I I have found
something in my field that I I cannot
recognize uh can you tell me what I
should do with it and he says well show
it to me my son and I I showed him the
circuit
and he looked at it and he said
my son
burn it
it is from the Devil
and you know the analogy is you see a
UFO in your field what do you do with it
maybe you know at at some level
we should just bear it you know because
something like that has never happened
before yep
[Music]
after I saw when I was 15 I saw that
object outside the room
over the the yard
the thought that came into my my mind if
you if you want to go there was I would
be ashamed of Being Human with the
equipment that I'm given you know with
the brain I'm given good or bad if if I
didn't try to find out
to respond to it in some way or at the
minimum acknowledge that it was there
okay I'm not going to lie about it I'm
not going I don't know what it was but
I'm not going to pretend that it wasn't
there and I think that's the way I you
know I'm still going
there was one one casing good old San
Jose a woman had seen something over her
house it was a big disc and I say how
big was it and she says well it was
about the same size as her house it was
you know just like that then I say well
when you went inside you said uh you
know there was this being and the being
took you on a staircase I say where did
the staircase go well the staircase went
up the side of this big round room I say
how would you compare it as well like
like a movie house you know like a M5
theater I said that's bigger than your
house
why is the inside bigger than the
outside
like if it exists outside of 4D you know
time space or whatever say say this is
you know you have a 2d universe and this
is a 3D object if it intersects you're
just going to see a sliver of it so
you'll just be a disc
Edwin Abbott wrote about a 3D Society
interacting with a 2d plane in his late
19th century classic flatland on Earth
we have the ability to move above and
below sea level East West and north
south so we have three degrees of motion
or axes on which we can move say you're
a fly in a box you can move up and down
forwards and backwards and right and
left but say that box is part of a
larger hypercube and the Box part is the
only part of the hypercube intersecting
with our 3D plane the hypercube would
obviously be much bigger on the inside
than what's represented on the outside
intersecting with our visible reality
instead of describing this phenomena
myself to you this clip from the great
Carl Sagan says it all fifth Cube cast
that shadow we recognize as two squares
with their vertices connected now let's
take this three-dimensional Cube
and project it carry it through a fourth
physical dimension in that case we would
generate a four-dimensional hypercube
which is also called a tesseract
I cannot show you a tesseract because I
and you are trapped in three dimensions
but what I can show you is the shadow in
three dimensions of a four-dimensional
hypercube or Tesseract this is it
and you can see it's two nested cubes
all the vertices connected by lines and
now the real Tesseract in four
dimensions would have all the lines of
equal length and all the angles right
angles that's not what we see here but
that's the penalty of projection
so you see while we cannot imagine the
world of four dimensions we can
certainly think about it perfectly well
do you think people you know we were
just talking about Jeffrey mishlov who
just interviewed you he wrote about a
guy named Mr PK tetto and tedo and
claimed to be a almost a biological
censor of UFOs and there are people I
think Chris Bledsoe in North Carolina
there are a couple of other people who
sort of claim similar things and so is
there something about the human body and
its energy
capacity that allows perception in some
cases and denies it in other cases when
many when maybe we're actually swimming
in these things and we just don't sort
of perceive them in our normal reality
that's something that high neck was Dr
heineck was
worried about
he was very bothered by people who would
see so you'd see a UFO you reported okay
you see another one
okay
there are people who have been hit by
lightning twice now people who win the
lottery twice you know all three times
but then there are people who see them
all the time like you see you know they
they never know exactly when but boom
there's a UFO in the sky we have people
like that on the ranch you know and
Utah
[Music]
people have described people who were
you know trained army officers
who
went to the ranch a few days went home
and boom they
there was some phenomenon following them
and you know the entity may play with
your life
would can be can be there is it good or
bad because
you know I think of uh the hierophanes
that Diana pasoka writes about where
somebody can have a beautiful religious
conversion experience that seems
positive and then in other cases they
feel like kind of demonic tricksters
giving you false information so it uh
from what I've read people perceive it
as bad they want to be rid of it and we
certainly hear that from current
Witnesses who had no idea that this was
possibly going to happen there are
bothered by
things in their home including things
that cause trouble
one of my all-time favorite Jacques
valet books is his 1969 classic passport
to Magonia in it he basically moves away
from the theory that UFOs are aliens
from outer space and instead proposes
that we are interacting with
interdimensional beings that have been
with Humanity for thousands of years I
had always wanted to look at where did
these stories fairy tales whatever that
we tell to Little Children where did
they come from all the books about
different civilizations in the Pacific
in Siberia and so on have footnotes they
say by the way the shaman also told me
50 years ago they were little men who
came out of a big light you know in
nivgaro I mean you could you could take
the stance that uh Roswell or Trinity
was this very strong kind of demarcation
line or you could or you could assume
that we've been seeing these things for
thousands of years which Jacques Valley
of course would yes yes and do you would
you disagree with that or no I
absolutely agree maybe these non-human
entities have been using tactics like BF
Skinner's intermittent reinforcement
confusion deception and absurdity to
drive human historical narrative for
thousands of years and maybe Celtic
leprechauns in medieval Ireland angels
and demons in the Bible and what we now
call space aliens are all just the same
thing it feels like you have a
proto-architecture of something that's
been going on for thousands of years and
what somebody recollects from the
experience is dependent on the kind of
noble mythology of their current time
Betty and Barney Hill perhaps one of the
most famous abduction cases in the U.S
occurred in 1961. in recalling their
abduction through a hypnotic regression
they said that the aliens they saw had
eyes around the rim of their heads this
was exactly how aliens were depicted in
the hit sci-fi CBS show Outer Limits
which premiered on national TV 11 days
before their Abduction the easy
explanation here may be that Betty and
Barney Hill were brainwashed but perhaps
they just encountered something so hard
to comprehend that in their recollection
of it they just attached the closest
available low-level meme they could to
it
in this case it was the space aliens
from outer limits but maybe in biblical
times it would have been Angels and
Demons this brings us to an even tripier
Quest question why are we now seeing
space aliens is this just the noble
mythology of our time is our UFO
experience being mediated does media
play a profound role in our
interpretation of these incomprehensible
mystical experiences
we know those stories have always been
there the the patterns when you look at
the patterns you strip the
interpretation just look at the physical
pattern it's identical it's not you know
heat searching missiles it's not all of
that it's not the Nimitz it's a lot
bigger
we have good instruments on the f-18s
and then we have an entire you know ship
with the most modern Radars which are by
the way still classified so we can give
you the data from those Radars you know
and that's you know I understand that
okay but let's not extrapolate too much
okay but this is all about phenomena
that can be detected with the
instruments we have today which are very
good you know I know you have sort of an
information Theory based model of the
universe and so if you think about
computer science which I know is one of
your backgrounds you have kind of a
client side and a server side and Carl
Jung writes about the UFO as kind of the
Sanskrit symbol of psychic completeness
and if you think about a lot of these
hierophanes they involve sort of psychic
phenomena and so what if we're sort of
these compressed fractals of this kind
of back-end server and it's a two-way
communication where you might be a
particularly active biosensor because
your electromagnetic field of your body
is to a certain level or something and
then uh and so you call certain
information or or uh really it would be
fast certain things but are you ready
people may not resonate with that that
for sure or and then on the flip side
it's like Rupert shell Drakes you know
morphic resonance where if a hundred
people do a crossword puzzle and you do
a crossword puzzle tomorrow you're a
little more likely to do it accurately
where you're pushing information to the
server as well yes and if you do
something new then you make it easier
for someone else to do something you're
in Venture Capital you know why we don't
sign no disclosure agreements because
uh you know the invention happens
you know this week they'll be five
people will make the same invention yes
but the real nature of the the total
invention isn't the the thing that's on
on your desk okay it's something else at
some other level then until you found
that you don't have you don't really
have an invention yeah okay I mean the
transistor was invented in 1930s there's
nothing they could do with it I mean
they didn't even have vacuum tubes how
they you know starting to have vacuum
tubes but then you know in 1945 46
suddenly we had a use for it you know
and uh
but even that isn't recognized by the
company well like the etymology of the
word genius is attendant Spirit yes and
so it feels like in a lot of cases
scientific innovation and technological
innovation isn't this sort of
mechanistic process it's almost like an
idea is Zapped into the inventor's mind
like Wolfgang powley figuring out the
architecture of the hydrogen atom or The
Rock's equation or all these things that
get sort of downloaded
people say you know if you gave Leonardo
a garage door opener there's nothing he
could do with it but if you gave him a
garage door opener and a garage Leonardo
would definitely know but random and the
garage would open and he would say well
I don't know how they do it but this
thing's opened the garage now with UFOs
we don't we don't have the garage you
know we have bits and pieces of things
well there's a there's a nuclear
explosion a garage opener because you
were talking about you know do you talk
about Trinity and you talk about talk
about Roswell and similar things happen
in the towns after the explosions you
have people report Devils chasing them
around and all sorts of Paranormal
Activity so are you opening up a window
to another plane you say that energy
correlates with information yes so if
you have this massive energy kind of uh
output then all of a sudden maybe you
can you can see me yes an impact that
continues so the question is can we walk
up the chain
of events and can we get back to the
source in some way I recently read uh
Foucault's Pendulum by Umberto Echo and
he talks about the Templars and how they
have the secrets of time travel
and there's an interesting Theory
actually by a professor at Montana Tech
named Mike Masters who says that aliens
are just us from the future and they
figured out time travel and they're sort
of coming back in time do you ever think
about that as a as a possibility do you
think humans could ever Master time
travel well the idea that they are from
the future is one idea there's an idea
that's more radical is that this is all
a simulation it doesn't matter when you
think about it it doesn't matter if if
we are in a simulation yeah you know one
of the great founders of AI of course is
uh Dr McCarthy at Stanford okay he had
the AI lab on the on the hill when I
came to Stanford in 68 and he told a
story his story was uh you know in in
the future you're going on with your job
you're selling something you fill out
the form and people pay you and in the
evening you you go home and you watch TV
with your kids okay
and then the next morning you get into
your car you go to the office and you
fill out some forms and people pay you
and you go okay
and then one day you're going to get a
letter from the Bureau of simulation the
Bureau of simulation says Dear Sir
we have observed your daily behavior for
the last six months
and you have not done anything that was
not predicted by the model if in the
next six months you don't do something
that's not predicted by tomorrow
you will be replaced by a simulated
human
so the guy is in shock and you know it
tells his wife you know I need to do
something you know trying to change my
life completely so he drops out of his
job takes whatever money he has moves to
the Himalayas starts climbing mountains
meditates or does all the things you're
supposed to do you know and and six
months later he goes home
a week goes by and he feels really good
goes back to his job and there's a lot
of it all right from the Bureau of
simulation that says Dear Sir in the
last six months you still haven't done
anything that wasn't
predicted by the simulation model and
you have been replaced
so he's still there
doing his job waking up in the morning
driving his car and so on but he doesn't
exist anymore yeah it's NPC he's in
simulated no yeah
piece of software that does all that
so and UFOs you know the way they behave
in an absurd way
I mean why would you want to have 11
f-18s chasing you all over the Pacific
uh when you know you can evade the radar
anytime yeah it's absurd
it's a very interesting type of
linguistic play interplay
with the consciousness of the viewer of
you you go to your job at night for a
forest and you you suddenly see a disc
and you see somebody there and he asks
you the time and you give it the time
and he says you're wrong it's 2 30. well
you know what time it is he's wrong yeah
why is he wrong
you know why would he say something like
right then he says am I in Italy or
Germany witness says you're in alzace
you know in France
and then the the guy goes back in inside
his finger thing takes off
okay what does it tell you well at the
first level maybe he was still dreaming
you know that's a logical thing you know
he made it up
but you have to go up a level you know
you go up a level it says you're wrong
about time you're wrong about space
right okay you don't know where you are
you don't know what time it is in fact
you don't know what time is yeah okay
now when I talk to a physicist like Eric
Davis that's what he tells me he says
you know those Dimensions like space and
time they're arbitrary yeah you know
there's something deeper that creates
the illusion of space and time in humans
and you think reality is sort of like an
hourglass right so you have a
constricted present and then maybe
probable Futures and probable pasts or
something but they're they're various in
nature
um I think a physicist like Eric would
tell you we really don't have a good
idea of what reality
is uh it's not even obvious that we can
stop it long enough to look at it do you
think the future can cause the past in
some ways well the
reality is really quantum foam for
physicists today it's not tied to any
particular space of time
it has its own internal properties and
then when
we are designed in such a way that when
we experience it you know I think of the
table as solid when I think of the air
as not solid okay because I I can do
this and with the table I you know it
hurts me if I push on it so but that's
just me you know physicists looking at
looking at it would say you know that's
your delusion like you know that's I I
can show you what yeah there's an
electron cloud or whatever you're
telling against each other so is there a
way to you know a lot of ancient
Traditions have this concept of an
illusion a great illusion like Maya and
that would be the Hindi version and um
Plato's Cave glaucom talks about a form
of meditation or a protocol to sort of
See Beyond the Veil he also implies
knowledge is sort of like an amino
dialogue he says all knowledge is
recollection I think Socrates says that
and um I know you're a fan of Philip K
dick and you uh you recommended that I
read vallus one time and I think it's
horse lover fat is sort of uh Philippine
Dick's Alter Ego that he sort of writes
into the the book and he also talks
about the birthing processes it's sort
of anamnesis and you know Amnesia you
forget your former self and you're
propelled forward in life by some Cosmic
wound to find the true primordial self
or something is that something you would
agree with or I think that's just
straight you know
a a process
of of trying to
steal your your brain
uh or read things that bring you to that
state
uh and I'm I'm not you know it could be
in a religious context
but it doesn't have to be in a religious
context I mean there is one level where
you know the the entire world is
I know it's mystical
Jacques seems to have a long-standing
interest in esotericism and specifically
Rosicrucianism in the 70s Jacques named
both his independent group of UFO
researchers and his seminal book about
their learnings the invisible College a
reference to Robert Boyle's 17th century
group of heretical natural philosophers
that eventually became the Royal Society
and was heavily influenced by
rosicrucian ideas but I think in his
mind UFO research has the potential to
heal a long divide created by the
enlightenment I'm talking about the
Schism between science or inquiry into
the natural world and the spirit inquiry
into the metaphysical if UFOs and aliens
are real Biblical literalism becomes
acceptable past religious conversions
might have just been alien abductions
the wheels of Ezekiel in the Old
Testament could have just been UFOs and
the events of the Bible might still be
going on today all of a sudden inquiry
into a repeated scientific observation
in the form of UFOs turns into a
metaphysical quest in search for larger
meaning not to mention the vast
implications here for the teleology and
fate of mankind
do you think that UFOs will become a
modern religion because I think about
the science and the spirit have been
bifurcated since the Enlightenment and
you named your group The Invisible
College in the 70s studying you know
UFOs and sort of uh I know you're
interested in Rosicrucianism do you
think we could re-merge the science and
the spirit in the form of ufo-based
religion
where it's both Science and Technology
you know I I wrote one of the books I
wrote messages of deception and and
other books where I went around for a
while looking at little UFO religions
you have the science approach where you
try to
find equations that account for the way
for what we you can observe but there is
another level which is you know when you
when you go out at night in the desert
and you see the Galaxy you know spread
in front of you you don't think of
equations I mean that's not what you
what you think of you think of you know
who am I I mean what am I doing here and
the reaction can be one of of Terror
which is why people usually don't want
to look at the night sky
um
or one of of just wonder and you know
fusion with the universe which is what
many of the astronauts have described
[Music]
on that note I really appreciate your
time we want we could talk all day but I
really appreciate it Jack thanks a lot
man thanks for the conversation that was
fun it was a lot of fun yeah
foreign